A project in Nova is either a single file or a directory containing files, and possibly sub-directories.

Directory structure do not have any effect on the result of your program. It is merely for the convenience of the programmer.

A directory may also include non-nova files. That is, files without a .nova suffix. These will be sorted out of compilation.

To the compiler it does not matter in which file a definition occurs. Every global definition is visible to the entire project.

To use libraries, use the 'use' keyword, followed by the name of the libraries you'd like to use.

use OpenGL, GLUT

If there are colliding functions, you can use the 'use' keyword together with the 'from' keyword

use openWindow from GLUT

Alternatively you can also use the 'from' keyword directly in your code

(openWindow from GLUT) (a,b,c)

This will try to apply (a,b,c) to 'openWindow' as it appears in the GLUT library

The 'use' keyword should probably appear in your main-file, or, if you write a library, in a separate use-file named 'use.nova'

In order to write an application, you simply define an identifier called 'main'. This will be the entry point of your program. To write a library, you simply omit any definition of 'main'

When you write a library, in order to not export a given identifier, use the 'locals' keyword

locals += helper0, helper1

The '+=' is only a mnemonic

There can be no locals in an application. If you do specify some locals an error will occur.

When importing a library, all identifiers are imported. There is no way to selectively import.

When collisions occur, you don't have to specify a preference. An error will only occur if you actually reference an identifier and several matches appear.

When compiling a project, use the name of your file or directory as an argument to the compiler

nameOfCompiler fileOrDirectory

This will create, in the current directory, a file with the same name as your directory or file, but with the '.nova' suffix removed if you used a file

Additional options may be given to the compiler, but that is implementation dependent

All files and directories in a Nova-project must be valid library names. A valid library name is any combination of upper case letters, lower case letters and digits.
